We're now in a position to define our what
it means to be a digital processing element.
We say a device is a "combinational device"
if it meets the following four criteria:
First, it should have digital inputs, by which
we mean the device uses our signaling convention,
interpreting input voltages below V_L as the
digital value 0, and voltages above V_H as
the digital value 1.
Second, the device's outputs should also be
digital, producing outputs of 0 by generating
voltages less than or equal to V_L and outputs
of 1 by generating voltages greater than or
equal to V_H.
With these two criteria, we should be able
to hook the output of one combinational device
to the input of another and expect the signals
passing between them to be interpreted correctly
as 0's and 1's.
Next, a combinational device is required to
have a functional specification that details
the value of each output for every possible
combination of digital values on the inputs.
In the example, the device has three digital
inputs, and since each input can take on one
of two digital values, there are 2*2*2 or
eight possible input configurations.
So the functional specification simply has
to tell us the value of the output Y when
the inputs are 000, and the output when the
inputs are 001, and so on, for all 8 input
patterns.
A simple table with eight rows would do the
trick.
Finally, a combinational device has a timing
specification that tells us how long it takes
for the output of the device to reflect changes
in its input values.
At a minimum, there must a specification of
the propagation delay, called t_PD, that is
an upper bound on the time from when the inputs
reach stable and valid digital values, to
when the output is guaranteed to have a stable
and valid output value.
Collectively, we call these four criteria
the "static discipline," which must be satisfied
by all combinational devices.
In order to build larger combinational systems
from combinational components, we'll follow
the composition rules set forth below.
First, each component of the system must itself
be a combinational device.
Second, each input of each component must
be connected a system input, or to exactly
one output of another device, or to a constant
voltage representing the value 0 or the value
1.
Finally, the interconnected components cannot
contain any directed cycles, i.e., paths through
the system from its inputs to its outputs
will only visit a particular component at
most once.
Our claim is that systems built using these
composition rules will themselves be combinational
devices.
In other words, we can build big combinational
devices out of combinational components.
Unlike our flaky analog system from the start
of the chapter, the system can be of any size
and still be expected to obey the static discipline.
Why is this true?
To see why the claim is true, consider the
following system built from the combinational
devices A, B and C.
Let's see if we can show that the overall
system, as indicated by the containing blue
box, will itself be combinational.
We'll do this by showing that the overall
system does, in fact, obey the static discipline.
First, does the overall system have digital
inputs?
Yes!
The system's inputs are inputs to some of
the component devices.
Since the components are combinational, and
hence have digital inputs, the overall system
has digital inputs.
In this case, the system is inheriting its
properties from the properties of its components.
Second, does the overall system have digital
outputs?
Yes, by the same reasoning.
All the system's outputs are connected to
one of the components and since the components
are combinational, the outputs are digital.
Third, can we derive a functional specification
for the overall system, i.e., can we specify
the expected output values for each combination
of digital input values?
Yes, we can by incrementally propagating information
about the current input values through the
component modules.
In the example shown, since A is combinational,
we can determine the value on its output given
the value on its inputs by using A's functional
specification.
Now we know the values on all of B's inputs
and can use its functional specification to
determine its output value.
Finally, since we've now determined the values
on all of C's inputs, we can compute its output
value using C's functional specification.
In general, since there are no cycles in the
circuit, we can determine the value of every
internal signal by evaluating the behavior
of the combinational components in an order
that's determined by the circuit topology.
Finally, can we derive the system's propagation
delay, t_PD, using the t_PDs of the components?
Again, since there are no cycles, we can enumerate
the finite-length paths from system inputs
to system outputs.
Then, we can compute the t_PD along a particular
path by summing the t_PDs of the components
along the path.
The t_PD of the overall system will be the
maximum of the path t_PDs considering all
the possible paths from inputs to outputs,
i.e, the t_PD of the longest such path.
So the overall system does in fact obey the
static discipline and so it is indeed a combinational
device. Pretty neat!
We can use our composition
rules to build combinational devices of arbitrary
complexity.